The only thing we haven't
really kind of talked about in
our kind of fundamentals here
is how to make AJAX requests.
And there's a bunch of
libraries to do that.
And like most things, it all depends
on how extreme your needs are.
If you have very simple needs,
Redux Thunk is probably the way
to go cuz it's incredibly simple.
If you're doing really sophisticated
things, you might want Redux-Saga or
Redux-Observable.
The application I used to work on for
a few years, was a drag and
drop editor for putting together emails.
It was fully an application.
And we found that we outgrew thunk and
needed all of the different debouncing and
throttling and different flows that
came with our RJS and Redux-Observable.
But if you're just like,
I need to hit an API and
put the thing on the page,
Redux Thunk is pretty easy.
And I'll kinda show you this because
Redux is gonna abstract a little bit of,
I'm gonna kind of show you just a high
level of, if one wanted to write
the middleware and you should not use
this, you should use the library.
Right, cuz the library has a bunch of
other edge cases that it's dealing with,
but if one wanted to write
the middleware from earlier in this
workshop to deal with this.
For every action that flows through,
if the type of that action is really
a function, call that action and
pass in dispatch and
let it dispatch another action.
So, we can say all right,
I'm gonna dispatch a AJAX call.
And it's gonna be like, cool, that's
not a object with a type or anything.
And it's like, so why don't I call it and
then when it resolves,
when we get back when the promise
resolves, or we hear back from the API,
then we'll dispatch another action.
This is an oversimplified version.
So, basically, Redux Thunk
allows you to dispatch functions
that will eventually dispatch actions.
So you're like,
I don't have the data from the API yet.
Let me dispatch this function that
will get the data from the API.
And then it will go dispatch
the action once we got everything back.
Redux Toolkit kinda papers over this.
It gives you a lot of
other nice things of like,
it will dispatch an action
when it starts loading.
It'll dispatch an action
when it's fulfilled.
It'll dispatch an action when it
errors and stuff along those lines.
So it takes care of a lot
of the boilerplate for you.
So let's go ahead and look at that.
And so I've got this search over here.
And we'll actually do it here.
So we can do in our code editor and
push it up.
Which is I wanna be able to type in
some name and then hit Submit and
go search for
characters within the Star Wars universe.
Right now this isn't wired
up to do anything, so
we're going to put it in place ourselves.
So I've got most of the initial,
this is the chores that we
were just talking about.
I've got most of
the initial slice in place,
where we've got an empty array of data,
the ability to add stuff, but
add what, we haven't hit the API.
And then, yeah, I need to figure
out how to do this asynchronously.
You remember createAction from before,
we were able to make our own actions?
And we used it for
that toggle task in the last example.
There's another helper called
createAsyncThunk, which is a mouthful.
But it's very similar, but it's for
creating asynchronous actions that
eventually will have
the data that we need.
So we'll say, const, I don't know,
fetchCharactersFromAPI.
We want createAsyncThunk, which first,
we're give it the name of the action,
just like we did with createAction.
And the first argument is,
what's the type?
And so we'll say it's characters/,
I don't know, fetchCharacters.
FetchCharacters, sweet.
And then it's gonna
take an async function.
We'll use the async keyword,
cuz it doesn't need to return
a promise at some point.
So it's gonna take some search term
that we get from that input field.
And it's gonna go and
make the AJAX request for us.
So we'll say this is all, we've entered
regular JavaScript at this point.
We'll say, response = await.
We use the fetch API.
You could use Axios.
You could use whatever.
This is just a regular
asynchronous function.
You can use whatever API or
AJAX library you want to use.
You can use jQuery's getJSON,
if you want to.
It doesn't matter to me.
So we're gonna just fetch, I need to
pull in this ENDPOINT real quick.
I gotta type that by hand.
We'll fetch the ENDPOINT plus
whatever the search term was, right?
So if they type in D-A, it'll be this API
plus D-A, which will search the database
for characters that start with letter D-A,
which in Star Wars is a thing.
So we'll await ENDPOINT + searchTerm.
I could lowercase if I wanted to.
I don't think it really matters.
And then with the fetch API,
we do need to take the response object.
And we know that it's gonna
be JSON in this case.
Again, if you're using library like Axios,
you might not have to do all of this, but
we're just use vanilla JavaScript for now.
And then finally, this function will
pause until we hear back from the API.
It will get the response of the,
we can call it result.
We'll call it response.
And if we look, let's hypothetically,
if I go over here,
we can see what the shape
of the API data is.
Give it a second.
I'll start typing as that comes back.
We'll return response.
And I believe it's the results key.
All right, so you can see results,
and it's gonna have a whole
bunch of different characters that
we want to load into the state.
So this is now an action that will
dispatch an API call, wait for it, and
then it is going to then
dispatch action for
us under the hood that we can actually
use synchronously in our redux state.
So it's effectively an action creator
that supports promises, right?
Cuz all of this, once we say,
createAsyncThunk, this asynchronous,
which is mostly doing a regular
fetch request at this point.
It's just whatever we return out of this
promise will be the payload of the action
that is eventually fired.
I think it'll make a little more
sense once we wire this up,
we can actually see it in
the dev tools as well.
So because this is not one of
the ones we're making it outside
of this reducers object,
we do need to add an extra reducer.
And I can use builder, but just to show
you the other syntax, I'll do it here.
Which is we'll just say,
this fetchCharactersFromAPI.fulfilled,
because this is gonna fire off, one, when
it starts the request, the pending one.
So we can show or hide loading.
One when it's fulfilled
when we have the data.
One if there's an error as well.
And here we'll just say, state and action.
And we'll do state.data,
which is where we're
storing stuff,
if you look at the initial state.
And we'll that's the action.payload.
All right, let's see if any of this works.
We'll go back over here.
Open up those tools for the redux ones.
[INAUDIBLE], refresh that real quick.
I know what I'm missing.
You can make all the actions you want, you
can make all the reducers you want, but
if you don't actually put them on to
the buttons, then they don't do anything.
So we gotta handle change.
And here,
did we export that one from earlier?
Let's see, let's export it.
And we'll go into fetchCharacters.
And now, when they submit the form,
we'll do fetchCharactersAPI,
with whatever that value was.
That's a search term in this case.
It's really into capitalizing these
slice names, I don't like it.
All right, so now with the da.
Let's see what's going on here.
We got dispatch, right?
So we'll do, const dispatch.
This is a little bit of a PSA for
why sometimes binding the action
creators does make a lot of sense.
Cuz if you just call the function,
it'll fire that network request, but
you'll never get the promise
actually dispatched.
So we need to dispatch the result of that.
So we'll use dispatch.
And then we will, As well.
All right, third time's a charm.
All right, you can see.
Let's see if I can configure this so
we can actually see the full name.
So it starts off by firing an event called
characters/fetchCharacters/pending.
This means we have fired off the network
request but we haven't heard back yet.
Then, right, we have fulfilled,
which has the data in the payload of
the whatever characters match,
which we then load here as well.
And so with the extra reducers,
we can also listen to the pending event.
And we can decide we're gonna show or
hide loading as well.
Cool, and so what we'll do here is,
without really changing much
in the way of our actions or
anything in the rest of our component,
we can throw in, if it's pending,
We're gonna set loading to true.
When it's fulfilled,
we'll set loading to false.
We'll start out loading as false as well.
So now it'll show loading automatically.
When it comes back, we will then
hide the loading and show the data.
Yoda is apparently the only character
in the Star Wars universe that has
Y-O in this name.
I just learned that literally
right now in front of all of you.
So we can basically have the whole life
cycle of network requests built in and
managed for us by Redux Thunk.
Let's just kinda take a look and
then we'll do one last
exercise together as friends.
Just to kinda tie this all
up a little bit, which is,
we create this in the same way
that we created actions before.
It's again, the first is a string,
what is the name of the action
that we're creating here?
The two distinctions
between create Action,
where we did that toggle task before,
and this one, is, it is an asynchronous
function that's gonna eventually give us
our payload when the promise resolves.
And it's also gonna fire off a pending and
fulfilled version of the action.
So we can manage the lifecycle of when
it leaves and when it comes back and
if it errored, right?
So it's kind of just making
an abstraction on things that you could do
yourself by hand.
Normally, if you were gonna do this
in a regular React application,
you would either in a useEffect, or in
a thunk, or something along those lines.
You would fire off the action saying,
okay, I'm sending it now,
I'm have a network request pending.
I have started to fetch the characters,
right?
You would wait for
the promise to resolve and
then you would dispatch another
action saying, I've gotten them back,
here they are, take down the loading
stuff, so on and so forth, right?
This is basically encapsulating
that lifecycle for you and
making it super easy to work with as well.